# Food ordering system (FOS) for McGee Restaurant

This Food Ordering System (FOS) is developed to streamline the ordering process at McGee Restaurant in Sri Petaling, Malaysia. 
Using Java's Remote Method Invocation (RMI) for distributed technology, the system enables both dine-in and take-away customers to place orders efficiently, helping reduce waiting time and manage high customer volumes.

# Project overview

McGee Restaurant previously relied on a paper-based system for order management, leading to potential billing errors, increased wait times, and data loss due to manual record-keeping. This project replaces the outdated approach with a digital Food Ordering System that allows customers to:

* **Register an account** with details including First Name, Last Name, and IC/Passport number.
* **Securely Order Food items** from categorized menus (drinks and food items) through the system.
* **Receive Bills** generated by the system, ensuring accuracy and reducing manual calculation errors.

The FOS application consists of both a server and client, supporting a graphical user interface for interaction. It uses an external database **MySql** to manage customer data and order history.

# Key Features

* **User Registration:** New users can register by creating a unique username. If the username already exists, the system prompts them to choose another.
* **Secure Communication:** Ensures secure data transmission between customers and the FOS using RMI.
* **Efficient Ordering:** Allows customers to view categorized menus, place orders, and check out without needing assistance from a server, minimizing wait time.

# Technologies Used
* **Java RMI** (Remote Method Invocation) for distributed computing
* **Java JDBC**
* **MySql** as External Database

# Installation Instructions
**Step 1 : Clone the Repository**

 1. Open your terminal or command prompt.
 2. Clone the repository from GitHub:
    
    ```
    git clone https://github.com/AdBinay/Food-Ordering-System-RMI-DCOMS.git
    ```
 3. Navigate to the project directory:
    
    ```
    cd Food-Ordering-System-RMI-DCOMS
    ```
**Step 2 : Setting Up Java**

 1. **Install Java Development Kit (JDK) :**
    If you haven't installed JDK, download and install the latest version from Oracle's    
    official site.
 2. **Set Up JAVA_HOME Environment Variable :**
    * Open System Properties > Environment Variables.
    * Under "System variables," add a new variable JAVA_HOME with the path to your JDK    
      installation.
 3. **Verify Installation:**
    Run the following command to confirm Java is installed:
    ```java -version```
 5. 
